The following is an article titled 'Security forces eliminate 12 terrorists in Balochistan, KP operations' from Thenews.Com.Pk from 2025-06-01 written by an unknown author. The text of the article follows.

Soldiers ride on a Pakistan Army vehicle in this undated image. — AFP/File At least 12 terrorists were neutralised by the security forces during separate operations in Balochistan and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, the Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR) said on Thursday. Moreover, four security personnel, including a lieutenant embraced martyrdom while protecting a check post in the KP's North Waziristan district. According to a statement issued by the Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR), an intelligence-based operation was conducted in Loralai district, on reported presence of “Fitna al Hindustan terrorists” on May 28. (Clockwise from top left) Shaheed Lieutenant Daniyal Ismail, Shaheed Lance Naik Fiaqat Ali, Shaheed Naib Subedar Kashif Raza, and Shaheed Sepoy Muhammad Hameed. "During the conduct of operation, own troops effectively engaged the terrorists’ location and after an intense fire exchange, four Indian-sponsored terrorists were successfully neutralised," read the statement. Weapons, ammunition and explosives were also recovered from the slain terrorists, the ISPR added. The killed Indian-sponsored terrorists were actively involved in numerous terrorist activities, including henious acts of terrorism on N-70 near Rarasham on August 26, 2024 and February 18, 2025, that resulted in martyrdom of 30 innocent civilians, it added. The killed Indian-sponsored terrorists were highly wanted by the law enforcement agencies, and were relentlessly pursued by the security forces. In another engagement that took place in Kech District, one more terrorist was killed, confirmed the military’s media affairs wing. “Security forces of Pakistan are determined to eliminate the menace Indian-sponsored terrorism from the country, and reaffirm the nation’s unwavering resolve to bring the perpetrators of terrorism and their facilitators to justice,” it added. In KP, seven terrorists belonging to Indian proxy “Fitna al Khwarij” — a reference to banned Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) — were killed in two separate engagements. On the night between May 28-29, Indian-sponsored terrorists attempted to attack the security forces check post in general area Shawal, North Waziristan district, the military's media wing said. "The attempt was effectively thwarted by own troops and in ensuing fire exchange, six Indian sponsored Khwarij were sent to hell," read the statement. However, during intense fire exchange, Lieutenant Daniyal Ismail, 24, a brave young officer who was leading his troops from front, fought gallantly and embraced Shahadat along with his three men. The three soldiers who paid ultimate sacrifice include Naib Subedar Kashif Raza, 41, Lance Naik Fiaqat Ali, 35 and Sepoy Muhammad Hameed, 26. In another encounter that took place in Chitral district, security forces successfully neutralised one Indian-sponsored terrorist. “Such sacrifices of our brave men further strengthen our resolve,” said the ISPR. Pakistan has witnessed surge in terror incidents since Taliban rulers returned to Afghanistan in 2021, particularly in the bordering provinces of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan. However, the first quarter of 2025 saw some promising trends in the security landscape of Pakistan, with the fatalities of militants and insurgents outnumbering the cumulative losses of civilians and security forces personnel. Its key findings, issued by the Centre for Research and Security Studies (CRSS) revealed notably fewer fatal losses among civilians and security forces personnel compared to the fourth quarter (Q4) of 2024 and a nearly 13% reduction in overall violence, The News reported. Despite progress, Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan remain epicentres of violence, accounting for 98% of all fatalities, with attacks growing bolder and militant tactics evolving, including the unprecedented hijacking of the Jaffar Express. Projections warn of over 3,600 fatalities by year-end if current trends persist, potentially making 2025 one of Pakistan’s deadliest years. Individually, Balochistan suffered 35% of all fatalities in the period under review, and compared to last quarter, it recorded an alarming 15% surge in violence. The comparison disregards the surge recorded in other provinces/ regions as the number of fatalities remains very low.