The following is an article titled 'Yemen’s Houthis Fire Missile at Israel a Day After Israeli Strikes on Sanaa Airport' from Antiwar.com from 2025-06-01 written by Dave Decamp. The text of the article follows.

The Houthis, officially known as Ansar Allah, have vowed the attacks will continue until there's a ceasefire in Gaza and an end to the Israeli blockade Yemen’s Houthis fired another missile at Israel on Thursday, a day after Israeli airstrikes hit Yemen’s Sanaa International Airport. The Israeli military said that it intercepted the missile after sirens sounded across central Israel. According to Israeli media, the incident marked the fifth Yemeni missile attack on Israel within a week. The Houthis, officially known as Ansar Allah, said the missile targeted Israel’s Ben Gurion Airport. Several major airlines have suspended flights to the airport amid the repeated Houthi attacks. Houthi military spokesman Yahya Saree “The operation successfully achieved its goal, thanks to Allah, forcing millions of occupying Zionists to flee to shelters and halting air traffic at the airport,” said Houthi military spokesman Yahya Saree. Saree reiterated that the Yemeni attacks on Israel would continue until there’s a ceasefire in Gaza and an end to the Israeli blockade. Ansar Allah officials have also vowed that they won’t be deterred by Israeli airstrikes. The Israeli strikes that hit the Sanaa airport on Wednesday struck a runway and destroyed the last functioning airplane that belongs to the national Yemeni airline. The airport had just resumed limited service on May 17 after it had suspended all flights due to Israeli airstrikes on May 6 that left the facility “totally disabled.” Recent US and Israeli airstrikes on Yemeni civilian infrastructure and new US sanctions on the Houthis, who govern an area where 70% to 80% of Yemenis live, have exacerbated an already dire humanitarian crisis in the country. President Trump announced a ceasefire with the Houthis on May 6, which he framed as a victory, but the US essentially gave up on trying to stop Yemeni attacks on Israel.