The following is an article titled 'Israeli officials fear Palestine recognition at UN conference' from The New Arab from 2025-06-01 written by The New Arab Staff. The text of the article follows.

An increasing number of Israeli officials are concerned that an international conference on a two-state solution will see large numbers of countries recognising the State of Palestine. Israeli officials are also concerned that the conference, set to be held at the UN in New York, is being organised with US tacit approval, according to Ynet. The officials told the publication that they believe the conference is a way for the US to pressure Israel into stopping its war on Gaza, which has drawn increasing international condemnation. Relations between US President Donald Trump and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu have been fraying in recent months, with Washington entering direct negotiations with Hamas to free an Israeli-American soldier without consulting Tel Aviv. Israel's war on Gaza has seen over 54,000 killed and is increasingly being viewed as a genocide. The conference, advanced on the initiative of France and Saudi Arabia and set to be held between 17 and 20 June, will discuss the prospect of a two-state solution to the conflict. According to the UN, the conference will feature eight roundtable discussions focused on aspects of the two-state solution and aims to produce an "action-oriented document" under the title: "Peaceful settlement of the question of Palestine and implementation of the two-State solution." UN General Assembly President Philemon Yang said that the conflict will only end "when Israelis and Palestinians can live side by side in their own sovereign, independent States, in peace, security, and dignity". France has been pushing European states, including the UK, the Netherlands, and Belgium, to use the conference as an opportunity to recognise a Palestinian state, according to Politico. The recognition would be a diplomatic means of shoring up international support for a two-state solution as Israel escalates its annexation of the occupied West Bank through the expansion of illegal settlements. On Tuesday, French Foreign Minister Jean-Noel Barrot said that the recognition of Palestine at the conference could help preserve the prospect of a two-state solution. Malta has already committed to recognising the State of Palestine at the summit, with Prime Minister Robert Abela saying that "we cannot close our eyes to this human tragedy that is getting worse every day". Earlier in May, France, Canada, and the UK issued a joint statement criticising Israel's war on Gaza and said that the three were "committed to recognising a Palestinian State as a contribution to achieving a two-state solution". Israel has warned that any recognition of Palestine could be met with an annexation of the occupied West Bank, a prospect that has been touted by several Israeli government ministers, including Finance Minister Bezalel Smotrich.